# 2023-05-08 Creation of VM Images

# Overview

I need to decide on how to proceed with the creation of VM images given I cannot do automatic installation of Linux.

# Table of Contents

* [Design Decisions](design-decisions)
  * [Single Versus Multiple Driver Scripts](single-versus-multiple-driver-scripts)
    * [Multiple Driver Scripts](multiple-driver-scripts)
    * [Single Driver Script](single-driver-script)
    * [Choice of Driver Script](choice-of-driver-script)
  * [Single Versus Multiple Xen Configuration Template](single-versus-multiple-xen-configuration-templates)
    * [Single XEN Configuration Template](single-xen-configuration-template)
    * [Multiple XEN Configuration Templates](multiple-xen-configuration-templates)
    * [Choice of XEN Configuration Template](choice-of-xen-configuration-template)

# Design Decisions

There are two (2) major decisions at this stage:
1. Single versus multiple driver scripts
2. Single versus multiple XEN configuration templates

## Single Versus Multiple Driver Scripts

As noted in [Release of Version 1.0](2023_02_01.md), I have been unable to automatically install the Linux operating systems onto the gold images. This means that the driver script [sites.yml](https://github.com/dfhawthorne/xen_server_farm/blob/main/sites.yml) has to be interrupted after the __"Create Gold Image Configuration Files"__ step, and the Linux operating systems then installed manually.

This interruption can be achieved in at least two (2) ways:
1. Multiple driver scripts
2. Single driver script with detection of incomplete Linux operating system installation.

### Multiple Driver Scripts

The advantage of using multiple driver scripts is that the interruption is made manifest.

The disadvantage of using multiple driver scripts is that the documentation for their use and ordering has to be maintained. Since it might be possible for me to work out how to do automatic Linux operating system, having multiple driver scripts means a procedure update.

### Single Driver Script

The advantage of retaining a canonical single driver script ([sites.yml](https://github.com/dfhawthorne/xen_server_farm/blob/main/sites.yml)) is that there is minimal documentation to run, and, if I ever get automatic Linux operating system installation working, there will no need to change the operational instructions.

The disadvantage is that I will need to determine if the Linux operating system has been installed. This will also need to be done if the automatic installation ever works. The plan is to have the driver script abort if the Linux installation has not been completed.

### Choice of Driver Script

Because I am an optimist, I am hopeful that, one day, I will work out how to do automatic Linux installation on Xen. Thus, I will persist with a single driver script.

## Single Versus Multiple Xen Configuration Template

With the addition of extra steps to configure and set up the target VMs, I will need to have a more configurable XEN configuration template. This can be done in one (1) of two (2) ways:
1. Single XEN Configuration Template
2. Multiple XEN Configuration Template

### Single XEN Configuration Template

The advantage of maintaining a single XEN configuration template is that there only one (1) place in which to make improvements to the template as I learn more about XEN.

The disadvantage is that the variables needed to populate the template explodes as the generality increases. It is possible to overcome this disadvantage by having defaults that match the configuration for gold image creation. But this means that the defaults are not intuitive.

### Multiple XEN Configuration Templates

The advantage of multiple XEN configuration templates is that each template can address a single purpose: gold image; or target VM.

The disadvantage is that improvements to XEN configuration templates has to be applied to multiple files in a consistent manner. This could be overcome by using include files, but this increases the complexity of the code.

### Choice of XEN Configuration Template

I choose multiple XEN configuration templates. This will allow me to focus on different use cases. I expect the rate of change to XEN configuration templates to be very low. This means that there could be a future bug in which features in the two (2) XEN configuration templates could be incompatible.
