# 2023-05-10 Build of Target VM Images

## Overview

Now that I have settled on the overall design of the build of Linux VMs on my XEn server, I have begun to update the installation playbook, [sites.yml](https://github.com/dfhawthorne/xen_server_farm/blob/main/sites.yml).

## Table of Contents

* [Configuration Data for Target VMs](configuration-data-for-target-vms)
  * [Placement of Configuration Data](placement-of-configuration-data)
  * [Configuration Data Contents](configuration-data-contents)
* [Build Target VMs](build-target-vms)
  * [Check for Linux Installations](check-for-linux-installations)
  * [Create Target VM](create-target-vm)
  * [Configure Target VM](configure-target-vm)
* [Other Playbook Changes](other-playbook-changes)
  * [Resolution of Issue #3](resolution-of-issue-3)
  * [Fully Qualified Modules](fully-qualified-modules)


## Configuration Data for Target VMs

Since I have multiple VMs to be configured, I plan to use a configuration template populated by Ansible variables.

### Placement of Configuration Data

Since I have a relatively small number of VMs to be created, the configuration data can be placed inline with the installation playbook. This would increase the clutter within the playbook but this comports with the idea of a shallow playbook.

The alternatives are:
1. Use an external database to contain the configuration data. However, this would increase my learning curve.
2. Place the configuration data in an external source. This would reduce the clutter of the playbook, but would increase the maintainability as Ansible has a long search list for variables.

### Configuration Data Contents

The target VM configuration data is defined in the variable, `target_vms`. No alternative name was considered.

`target_vms` is implemented as an array of the following elements:
1. `vm_name` has a similar functionality to that in the `iso_images`. This name is chosen for consistency.
2. `gold_image` is consistent with current industry usage and denotes the source VM image.
3. `memory_size` is a better name than the XEN parameters, `memory` and `maxmem`. I decided against appending `_mb` as I thought was unnecessary.
4. `cpu_pool` is consistent with the name of the `create_cpu_pools.sh` script.
5. `num_cpus` is a better name than the XEN parameters, `vcpus` and `maxvcups`.
6. `vnc_port` is a better name than the XEN parameter, `vncdisplay`.
7. `ip_addr_n` is the IPV4 address for the nth NIC.
8. `mac_addr_n` is the MAC address for the nth NIC.
9. `bridge_n` is the XEN bridge to attach the nth NIC to.

The last three (3) items use a suffix to denote array elements. It would be programmatically better to use an array instead, but my current Jinga2 programming skills preclude this.

## Build Target VMs

### Check for Linux Installations

I have created a file of `md5sum` checksums called `gold_images_md5sum.dat` which is stored in the `files` subdirectory because the file is not a template.

These checksums are verified using the `--check` option of the `md5sum` command. This takes a long time to do.

### Create Target VM

The creation of the target VMs involves three (3) steps:
1. Creation of a subdirectory within `/OVS/running_pool`. This is in violation of OVM norms as images are stored in `/OVS/seed_pool` and then to `/OVS/running_pool` before starting the VM image.
2. Creation of the HVM configuration files in that new subdirectory.
3. Copy the selected gold image VM to that new subdirectory.

### Configure Target VM

This will be done through a script called `config_target_vm.sh`. I have raised issue #4 to replace the current stub implementation.

## Other Playbook Changes

### Resolution of Issue #3

I resolved issue #3 by using an NFS share (`/opt/share/Nundah`).

With this NFS share, I was able to replace the `copy` module with the `cp` command. This saved considerable runtime by removing the requirements for doing checksums.

With the removal of checksums, these are no need to retain the `sum` item in elements of `iso_images`.

### Fully Qualified Modules

In line with current Ansible programming style, I am now using fully qualified module names.
